---
layout: post
title:  "Andrew Yang 2020"
date:   2019-05-04
categories: politics
---

A few months ago I was listening to Sam Harris's podcast _Making Sense_ and I was intrigued to hear the ideas of 
Democratic presidential candidate Andrew Yang. It was refreshing to hear someone that didn't do the political dance 
and was really honest about the problems facing us as a society. 

Andrew's core proposal is Universal Basic Income of $1000 every month for every American citizen.
Can we afford this? Yes, as the richest most vibrant economy in the world, we really truly can afford it.

Why should we choose to afford it? As America's economy continues to boom, largely due to technological advances, 
the vast majority of its citizens are actually becoming worse off. How is this possible?
Because trickle down economics just doesn't work. The last 30 years of rising income inequality have proven this.
When the rich get richer, they just invest more into getting richer. 
Sure, their wealth often employs some people, but as the economy shifts due to the 
tide of automation, more and more of those riches are generated by algorithms and robots, then reinvested in algorithms and robots, 
funneling the money into the hands of very few and never touching the vast majority of society. This will only
worsen with the advent of some of the Artificial Intelligence applications that will soon replace call center 
workers and eventually truck drivers.

Andrew's plan to give all Americans $1000 per month would help to alleviate the economic pain caused by this shift.
He calls it a trickle up economy, and I think the name is apt. When people have money to spend, instead of a mindset 
of scarcity, they will have money to spend at local businesses, invest in themselves through education, start new businesses, etc. 
Businesses would benefit as well by making more sales to average Americans. 
After all, it's not good for business if your customers can't afford to buy your products.

Where would the money come from? UBI is essentially a reverse tax, or in simpler terms, a tax cut. 
However, unlike giving a tax cut to the wealthy and corporations (e.g. what Republicans just did), the average 
American isn't going to go hide their money from taxation through elaborate schemes. They're going to spend it.
And an additional Value Added Tax (VAT) would allow the federal government to capture the money coming from economic activity
in a reliable way.

If you know me well, you know I love to learn and that I believe in the power of education to improve human lives.
How does Andrew Yang's political platform fit into this core value of mine?

First, Andrew shares my concern about underpaying teachers which many politicians tend to completely ignore. 
The low salaries given to teachers who perform arguably society's most important work are a signal that reverberates through the economy. 
Growing up I remember hearing the mocking refrain "Those who can't do teach." If you think about it, this is 
a totally ridiculous notion. Why would you put someone who can't perform a given task in charge of teaching 
others how to perform that task? Though I don't believe this is the case, a low salary is a signal that the market
does not value what teachers do as much as the jobs of others earning more. That message is clearly 
heard in (ironically) universities where frankly a profession as an educator is lauded for its altruism, yet 
implicitly looked down on because what the market truly values is lines of code, stock trades, legal fees, and medical procedures. 
Are these jobs as important as educating the youth of society? NO. They are NOT. I love Andrew's policy page on [paying 
teachers more](https://www.yang2020.com/policies/teacher-salaries/).

The other reason I believe Andrew Yang's proposed policies are in alignment with my core beliefs about education
deals with the economic instability faced by many of the nation's students living in poverty.
I started investing my time and money into [Communities in Schools](https://cisofnova.org/) because
I firmly believe that investing in the education of the next generation is fundamental
to the stability of our society. The main focus of the organization has nothing to do with the actual academics at school.
The focus is on helping students overcome challenges with meeting their basic needs. which will in turn allow them 
to effectively learn instead of being lost and distracted by problems that they bring with them to school. 
By giving these kids resources such as school supplies, access to laundry facilities, one-on-one attention from the 
site coordinators, and much more, these kids have a much better shot at staying in school and learning what they need to learn
to become good citizens. 

What is the underlying problem here? The quality of the laptops that each of these kids has? No, the problem is instability at home. 
Are these kids just dumber than the kids of wealthy families?
No, they are not. If a student is worried about where their next meal is coming from or whether or not they might have to move again
or whether the temperature is going to be too cold tomorrow for them to leave their house in the only clothing they own, 
it is impossible to perform at their best. UBI would help immensely in giving families the stability to help 
their children be successful in school. In this way UBI would help support the mission of
helping kids get a good education.

So there you have it. Let's go [#YangGang](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23yanggang&src=tyah) 

Take a look at the [Andrew Yang's](https://www.yang2020.com/policies/) policies to learn more.